---
title: Minecraft 1.14 - Village & Pillage Update
---
Apparently, it takes a village to raise a child. Frankly, if we'd known how much work putting together the biggest Minecraft update yet was going to be, we'd have probably taken the easy option and tried to raise that child instead.

But it was all worth it for this, Village & Pillage Update release day! I can almost hear the Pillagers firing their crossbows into the air in celebration! Or are they firing them towards me...

Enjoy the update!

### VILLAGE & PILLAGE CHANGELOG

* Lots of accessibility improvements!
* Added bamboo blocks into the game
* Added bamboo jungles in the world
* Added barrels
* Added the bell
* Added yummy sweet berries and sweet berry bushes to the game! Be careful skipping merrily through those bushes though...
* Added blast furnace
* Rewrote the book & quill editing to be more intuitive
* Added campfire
* Added cartography table
* Split cats and ocelots to their own creatures and updated cats with new features!
* Added composter
* Added crossbows
* Added lots of new blocks!
* Added lots of new decorative blocks!
* Added fletching table
* Added new dyes and flowers
* Added some community suggestions
* Updated the credits list
* Added in-game buttons for reporting bugs or giving feedback
* Improvements to invisibility to allow it to correctly work in many cases where it didn't but you'd expect it to
* Added grindstone functionality
* Added 'Hero of the Village' effect
* Added leather horse armor
* Added lantern
* Added lectern
* Added loom
* Existing special banner patterns can now be crafted into a new item that is not consumed when used, Banner Patterns
* Added a new "Globe" banner pattern and item
* We're now using the new textures!
* Added new noteblock sounds
* Added pandas
* Added foxes
* Added Illager patrols
* Added Pillagers
* Added Pillager outpost
* Added raids
* Added Ravager
* Added Wandering Trader
* Added scaffolding
* Rewrote the sign editing to be more intuitive
* Added smithing table
* Added smoker
* Added stonecutter
* Added suspicious stew – hmmmm!
* Trading changes
* Villager changes
* Biome based architecture for villages
* Removed Herobrine
